Code	Name	Grade	Subject	Type	Description
ADA1OI	Dramatic Arts	9	Arts	Open	"This course provides opportunities for students to explore dramatic forms and techniques, using material from a wide range of sources and cultures. Students will use the elements of drama to examine situations and issues that are relevant to their lives. Students will create, perform, discuss, and analyse drama, and then reflect on the experiences to develop an understanding of themselves, the art form, and the world around them."
AMI1OI	Instrumental Music - Band	9	Arts	Open	"This course emphasizes the creation and performance of music at a level consistent with previous experience and is aimed at developing technique, sensitivity, and imagination. Students will develop musical literacy skills by using the creative and critical analysis processes in composition, performance, and a range of reflective and analytical activities. Students will develop an understanding of the conventions and elements of music and of safe practices related to music, and will develop a variety of skills transferable to other areas of their life."
AMI1OX	Instrumental Music - Band (Beginner)	9	Arts	Open	"This course emphasizes the creation and performance of music at a level consistent with previous experience and is aimed at developing technique, sensitivity, and imagination. Students will develop musical literacy skills by using the creative and critical analysis processes in composition, performance, and a range of reflective and analytical activities. Students will develop an understanding of the conventions and elements of music and of safe practices related to music, and will develop a variety of skills transferable to other areas of their life."
AMS1OI	Instrumental Music - Strings (Full year)	9	Arts	Open	"This course emphasizes the creation and performance of music at a level consistent with previous experience and is aimed at developing technique, sensitivity, and imagination. Students will develop musical literacy skills by using the creative and critical analysis processes in composition, performance, and a range of reflective and analytical activities. Students will develop an understanding of the conventions and elements of music and of safe practices related to music, and will develop a variety of skills transferable to other areas of their life. Program to be paired with undetermined Gr 9 course."
AMS1OX	Instrumental Music - Strings (Beginner)	9	Arts	Open	"This course emphasizes the creation and performance of music at a level consistent with previous experience and is aimed at developing technique, sensitivity, and imagination. Students will develop musical literacy skills by using the creative and critical analysis processes in composition, performance, and a range of reflective and analytical activities. Students will develop an understanding of the conventions and elements of music and of safe practices related to music, and will develop a variety of skills transferable to other areas of their life."
AMV1OI	Music - Choral/Vocal	9	Arts	Open	"This course emphasizes the creation and performance of music at a level consistent with previous experience and is aimed at developing technique, sensitivity, and imagination. Students will develop musical literacy skills by using the creative and critical analysis processes in composition, performance, and a range of reflective and analytical activities. Students will develop an understanding of the conventions and elements of music and of safe practices related to music, and will develop a variety of skills transferable to other areas of their life."
AVI1OI	Visual Arts	9	Arts	Open	"This course is exploratory in nature, offering an overview of visual arts as a foundation for further study. Students will become familiar with the elements and principles of design and the expressive qualities of various materials by using a range of media, processes, techniques, and styles. Students will use the creative and critical analysis processes and will interpret art within a personal, contemporary, and historical context."
ADA2OI	Dramatic Arts	10	Arts	Open	"This course provides opportunities for students to explore dramatic forms, conventions, and techniques. Students will explore a variety of dramatic sources from various cultures and representing a range of genres. Students will use the elements of drama in creating and communicating through dramatic works. Students will assume responsibility for decisions made in the creative and collaborative processes and will reflect on their experiences."
AMI2OI	Instrumental Music - Band	10	Arts	Open	"This course emphasizes the creation and performance of music at a level consistent with previous experience. Students will develop musical literacy skills by using the creative and critical analysis processes in composition, performance, and a range of reflective and analytical activities. Students will develop their understanding of musical conventions, practices, and terminology and apply the elements of music in a range of activities. They will also explore the function of music in society with reference to the self, communities, and cultures."
AMR2OS	Music Repertoire - Strings	10	Arts	Open	"Concurrent – AMS2OI, (0.5 credit)"
AMS2OI	Instrumental Music - Strings	10	Arts	Open	"This course emphasizes the creation and performance of music at a level consistent with previous experience. Students will develop musical literacy skills by using the creative and critical analysis processes in composition, performance, and a range of reflective and analytical activities. Students will develop their understanding of musical conventions, practices, and terminology and apply the elements of music in a range of activities. They will also explore the function of music in society with reference to the self, communities, and cultures."
AMV2OI	Music - Vocal/Choral	10	Arts	Open	"This course emphasizes the creation and performance of music at a level consistent with previous experience. Students will develop musical literacy skills by using the creative and critical analysis processes in composition, performance, and a range of reflective and analytical activities. Students will develop their understanding of musical conventions, practices, and terminology and apply the elements of music in a range of activities. They will also explore the function of music in society with reference to the self, communities, and cultures."
AVI2OI	Visual Arts	10	Arts	Open	"This course enables students to develop their skills in producing and presenting art by introducing them to new ideas, materials, and processes for artistic exploration and experimentation. Students will apply the elements and principles of design when exploring the creative process. Students will use the critical analysis process to reflect on and interpret art within a personal, contemporary, and historical context."
ADA3MI	Dramatic Arts	11	Arts	University/College	"This course requires students to create and perform in dramatic presentations. Students will analyse, interpret, and perform dramatic works from various cultures and time periods. Students will research various acting styles and conventions that could be used in their presentations, and analyse the functions of playwrights, directors, actors, designers, technicians, and audiences. (Prerequisite: Drama, Grade 9 or 10, Open.)"
AMG3OI	Guitar Music	11	Arts	Open	"This course develops students’ musical literacy through performance and the preparation and presentation of music productions. Students will perform works at a level consistent with previous experience. Independently and collaboratively, students will use current technology and the creative and critical analysis processes to plan, produce, present, and market musical productions. Students will respond to, reflect on, and analyse music from various genres and periods, and they will develop skills transferable to other aspects of their life and their careers."
AMI3MI	Instrumental Music - Band	11	Arts	University/College	"This course provides students with opportunities to develop their musical literacy through the creation, appreciation, analysis, and performance of music, including traditional, commercial, and art music. Students will apply the creative process when performing appropriate technical exercises and repertoire and will employ the critical analysis processes when reflecting on, responding to, and analysing live and recorded performances. Students will consider the function of music in society and the impact of music on individuals and communities. They will explore how to apply skills developed in music to their life and careers. (Prerequisite: Music, Grade 9 or 10 Open)"
AMR3MB	Music Repertoire - Band	11	Arts	University/College	"Concurrent-AMI3MI, (0.5 credit)"
AMR3MS	Music Repertoire - Strings	11	Arts	University/College	"Concurrent-AMS3MI, (0.5 credit)"
AMS3MI	Instrumental Music - Strings	11	Arts	University/College	"This course provides students with opportunities to develop their musical literacy through the creation, appreciation, analysis, and performance of music, including traditional, commercial, and art music. Students will apply the creative process when performing appropriate technical exercises and repertoire and will employ the critical analysis processes when reflecting on, responding to, and analysing live and recorded performances. Students will consider the function of music in society and the impact of music on individuals and communities. They will explore how to apply skills developed in music to their life and careers. (Prerequisite: Music, Grade 9 or 10 Open)"
AMV3MI	Music - Vocal/Choral	11	Arts	University/College	"This course provides students with opportunities to develop their musical literacy through the creation, appreciation, analysis, and performance of music, including traditional, commercial, and art music. Students will apply the creative process when performing appropriate technical exercises and repertoire and will employ the critical analysis processes when reflecting on, responding to, and analysing live and recorded performances. Students will consider the function of music in society and the impact of music on individuals and communities. They will explore how to apply skills developed in music to their life and careers. (Prerequisite: Music, Grade 9 or 10 Open)"
ASM3MI	"Media Arts, Film/Video"	11	Arts	University/College	"This course focuses on the development of media arts skills through the production of art works involving traditional and emerging technologies, tools, and techniques such as new media, computer animation, and web environments. Students will explore the evolution of media arts as an extension of traditional art forms, use the creative process to produce effective media art works, and critically analyse the unique characteristics of this art form. Students will examine the role of media artists in shaping audience perceptions of identity, culture, and community values. (Prerequisite: Media Arts, Grade 10, Open, or any Grade 9 or 10 arts course Open)"
AVI3MI	Visual Arts	11	Arts	University/College	"This course enables students to further develop their knowledge and skills in visual arts. Students will use the creative process to explore a wide range of themes through studio work that may include drawing, painting, sculpting, and printmaking, as well as the creation of collage, multimedia works, and works using emergent technologies. Students will use the critical analysis process when evaluating their own work and the work of others. The course may be delivered as a comprehensive program or through a program focused on a particular art form (e.g. photography, video, computer graphics, information design).(Prerequisite: Visual Arts, Grade 9 or 10, Open)"
AVI3OI	Visual Arts	11	Arts	Open	"This course focuses on studio activities in the visual arts, such as drawing, painting, sculpture, photography, printmaking, collage, and/or multimedia art. Students will use the creative process to create art works that reflect a wide range of subjects and will evaluate works using the critical analysis process. Students will also explore works of art within a personal, contemporary, historical, and cultural context."
AWQ3OI	Photography	11	Arts	Open	"This course focuses on studio activities in the visual arts, such as drawing, painting, sculpture, photography, printmaking, collage, and/or multimedia art. Students will use the creative process to create art works that reflect a wide range of subjects and will evaluate works using the critical analysis process. Students will also explore works of art within a personal, contemporary, historical, and cultural context."
ADA4MI	Dramatic Arts	12	Arts	University/College	"This course requires students to experiment individually and collaboratively with forms and conventions of both drama and theatre from various cultures and time periods. Students will interpret dramatic literature and other text and media sources while learning about various theories of directing and acting. Students will examine the significance of dramatic arts in various cultures, and will analyse how the knowledge and skills developed in drama are related to their personal skills, social awareness, and goals beyond secondary school. (Prerequisite: Drama, Grade 11, University/College Preparation)"
AMI4MI	Instrumental Music - Band	12	Arts	University/College	"This course enables students to enhance their musical literacy through the creation, appreciation, analysis, and performance of music. Students will perform traditional, commercial, and art music, and will respond with insight to live and recorded performances. Students will enhance their understanding of the function of music in society and the impact of music on themselves and various communities and cultures. Students will analyse how to apply skills developed in music to their life and careers. (Prerequisite: Music, Grade 11, University/College Preparation)"
AMG4OI	"Guitar Music, Year 2"	12	Arts	Open	There is no description for this course.
AMR4MB	Music Repertoire - Band	12	Arts	University/College	"Concurrent - AMI4MI, (0.5 credit)"
AMR4MS	Music Repertoire - Strings	12	Arts	University/College	"This course enables students to enhance their musical literacy through the creation, appreciation, analysis, and performance of music. Students will perform traditional, commercial, and art music, and will respond with insight to live and recorded performances. Students will enhance their understanding of the function of music in society and the impact of music on themselves and various communities and cultures. Students will analyse how to apply skills developed in music to their life and careers. (Prerequisite: Music, Grade 11, University/College Preparation) (Concurrent-AMS4MI, 0.5 credit)"
AMS4MI	Instrumental Music - Strings	12	Arts	University/College	"This course enables students to enhance their musical literacy through the creation, appreciation, analysis, and performance of music. Students will perform traditional, commercial, and art music, and will respond with insight to live and recorded performances. Students will enhance their understanding of the function of music in society and the impact of music on themselves and various communities and cultures. Students will analyse how to apply skills developed in music to their life and careers. (Prerequisite: Music, Grade 11, University/College Preparation)"
AMV4MI	Music -  Vocal/Choral	12	Arts	University/College	"This course enables students to enhance their musical literacy through the creation, appreciation, analysis, and performance of music. Students will perform traditional, commercial, and art music, and will respond with insight to live and recorded performances. Students will enhance their understanding of the function of music in society and the impact of music on themselves and various communities and cultures. Students will analyse how to apply skills developed in music to their life and careers.(Prerequisite: Music, Grade 11, University/College Preparation)"
ASM4MI	"Media Arts, Film/Video"	12	Arts	University/College	"This course emphasizes the refinement of media arts skills through the creation of a thematic body of work by applying traditional and emerging technologies, tools, and techniques such as multimedia, computer animation, installation art, and performance art. Students will develop works that express their views on contemporary issues and will create portfolios suitable for use in either career or postsecondary education applications. Students will critically analyse the role of media artists in shaping audience perceptions of identity, culture, and community values. (Prerequisite: Media Arts, Grade 11, University/College Preparation)"
AVI4MI	Visual Arts	12	Arts	University/College	"This course focuses on enabling students to refine their use of the creative process when creating and presenting two- and three-dimensional art works using a variety of traditional and emerging media and technologies. Students will use the critical analysis process to deconstruct art works and explore connections between art and society. The studio program enables students to explore a range of materials, processes, and techniques that can be applied in their own art production. Students will also make connections between various works of art in personal, contemporary, historical, and cultural contexts. (Prerequisite: Visual Arts, Grade 11, University/College Preparation)"
AWQ4MI	Photography	12	Arts	University/College	"This course focuses on enabling students to refine their use of the creative process when creating and presenting two- and three-dimensional art works using a variety of traditional and emerging media and technologies. Students will use the critical analysis process to deconstruct art works and explore connections between art and society. The studio program enables students to explore a range of materials, processes, and techniques that can be applied in their own art production. Students will also make connections between various works of art in personal, contemporary, historical, and cultural contexts. (Prerequisite: Visual Arts, Grade 11, University/College Preparation)"
BBI1OI	Introduction to Business	9	Business Studies	Open	"This course introduces students to the world of business. Students will develop an understanding of the functions of business, including accounting marketing, information technology, human resources, and production, and of the importance of ethics and social responsibility. This course builds a foundation for further studies in business and helps students develop the business knowledge and skills they will need in their everyday lives."
BTT1OI	Information and Communication Technology in Business	9	Business Studies	Open	"This course introduces students to information and communication technology in a business environment and builds a foundation of digital literacy skills necessary for success in a technologically driven society. Students will develop word processing, spreadsheet, database, desktop publishing, presentation software, and website design skills. Throughout the course, there is an emphasis on digital literacy, effective electronic research and communication skills, and current issues related to the impact of information and communication technology."
BBI2OI	Introduction to Business	10	Business Studies	Open	"This course introduces students to the world of business. Students will develop an understanding of the functions of business, including accounting marketing, information technology, human resources, and production, and of the importance of ethics and social responsibility. This course builds a foundation for further studies in business and helps students develop the business knowledge and skills they will need in their everyday lives."
BTT2OI	Information and Communication Technology in Business	10	Business Studies	Open	"This course introduces students to information and communication technology in a business environment and builds a foundation of digital literacy skills necessary for success in a technologically driven society. Students will develop word processing, spreadsheet, database, desktop publishing, presentation software, and website design skills. Throughout the course, there is an emphasis on digital literacy, effective electronic research and communication skills, and current issues related to the impact of information and communication technology."
ICS2OI	Introduction to Computer Technology Studies	10	Business Studies	Open	"This course introduces students to computer programming. Students will plan and write simple computer programs by applying fundamental programming concepts, and learn to create clear and maintainable internal documentation. They will also learn to manage a computer by studying hardware configurations, software selection, operating system functions, networking, and safe computing practices. Students will also investigate the social impact of computer technologies, and develop an understanding of environmental and ethical issues related to the use of computers."
BAF3MI	Financial Accounting Fundamentals	11	Business Studies	University/College	"This course introduces students to the fundamental principles and procedures of accounting. Students will develop financial analysis and decision-making skills that will assist them in future studies and/or career opportunities in business. Students will acquire an understanding of accounting for a service and a merchandising business, computerized accounting, financial analysis, and current issues and ethics in accounting."
BDI3CI	Entrepreneurship: The Venture	11	Business Studies	College	"This course focuses on ways in which entrepreneurs recognize opportunities, generate ideas, and organize resources to plan successful ventures that enable them to achieve their goals. Students will create a venture plan for a student-run school-based or summer business. Through hands-on experiences, students will have opportunities to develop the values, traits, and skills most often associated with successful entrepreneurs."
BMI3CI	"Marketing: Goods, Services, Events"	11	Business Studies	College	"This course introduces the fundamental concepts of product marketing, which includes the marketing of goods, services, and events. Students will examine how trends, issues, global economic changes, and information technology influence consumer buying habits. Students will engage in marketing research, develop marketing strategies, and produce a marketing plan for a product of their choice."
ICS3UI	Introduction to Computer Science	11	Business Studies	University	"This course introduces students to computer science. Students will design software independently and as part of a team, using industry-standard programming tools and applying the software development life-cycle model. They will also write and use subprograms within computer programs. Students will develop creative solutions for various types of problems as their understanding of the computing environment grows. They will also explore environmental and ergonomic issues, emerging research in computer science, and global career trends in computer-related fields. (recommend - ICS2OI)"
CGC1DI	Issues in Canadian Geography	9	Canadian and World Studies	Academic	"This course examines interrelationships within and between Canada’s natural and human systems and how these systems interconnect with those in other parts of the world. Students will explore environmental, economic, and social geographic issues relating to topics such as transportation options, energy choices, and urban development. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate various geographic issues and to develop possible approaches for making Canada a more sustainable place to live."
CGC1DF	Issues in Canadian Geography	9	Canadian and World Studies	Academic	"This course examines interrelationships within and between Canada’s natural and human systems and how these systems interconnect with those in other parts of the world. Students will explore environmental, economic, and social geographic issues relating to topics such as transportation options, energy choices, and urban development. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate various geographic issues and to develop possible approaches for making Canada a more sustainable place to live. (Extended French)"
CGC1PI	Issues in Canadian Geography	9	Canadian and World Studies	Applied	"This course focuses on current geographic issues that affect Canadians. Students will draw on their personal and everyday experiences as they explore a range of issues, including food and water supplies, competing land uses, and interactions with the natural environment, developing their awareness that issues that affect their lives are interconnected with issues in other parts of the world. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate choices related to sustainable living in Canada."
CHC2DI	Canadian History since World War I	10	Canadian and World Studies	Academic	"This course explores social, economic, and political developments and events and their impact on the lives of different groups in Canada since 1914. Students will examine the role of conflict and cooperation in Canadian society, Canada’s evolving role within the global community, and the impact of various individuals, organizations, and events on Canadian identity, citizenship, and heritage. They will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating key issues and events in Canadian history since 1914."
CHC2DF	Canadian History since World War I (Extended French)	10	Canadian and World Studies	Academic	"This course explores social, economic, and political developments and events and their impact on the lives of different groups in Canada since 1914. Students will examine the role of conflict and cooperation in Canadian society, Canada’s evolving role within the global community, and the impact of various individuals, organizations, and events on Canadian identity, citizenship, and heritage. They will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating key issues and events in Canadian history since 1914. This course is offered with French as the language of instruction."
CHC2PI	Canadian History since World War I	10	Canadian and World Studies	Applied	"This course focuses on the social context of historical developments and events and how they have affected the lives of people in Canada since 1914. Students will explore interactions between various communities in Canada as well as contributions of individuals and groups to Canadian heritage and identity. Students will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating the continuing relevance of historical developments and how they have helped shape communities in present-day Canada."
CHV2OH	Civics and Citizenship	10	Canadian and World Studies	Open	"This is a 0.5 credit course. This course explores rights and responsibilities associated with being an active citizen in a democratic society. Students will explore issues of civic importance such as healthy schools, community planning, environmental responsibility, and the influence of social media, while developing their understanding of the role of civic engagement and of political processes in the local, national, and/or global community. Students will apply the concepts of political thinking and the political inquiry process to investigate, and express informed opinions about, a range of political issues and developments that are both of significance in today’s world and of personal interest to them."
CHV2OF	Civics and Citizenship (Extended French)	10	Canadian and World Studies	Open	"This is a 0.5 credit course. This course explores rights and responsibilities associated with being an active citizen in a democratic society. Students will explore issues of civic importance such as healthy schools, community planning, environmental responsibility, and the influence of social media, while developing their understanding of the role of civic engagement and of political processes in the local, national, and/or global community. Students will apply the concepts of political thinking and the political inquiry process to investigate, and express informed opinions about, a range of political issues and developments that are both of significance in today’s world and of personal interest to them."
CGT3OI	Introduction to Spatial Technologies	11	Canadian and World Studies	Workplace	"This course enables students to develop practical skills associated with spatial technologies and to investigate related career opportunities. Students will develop their ability to use geographic information systems (GIS), global positioning systems (GPS), and remote sensing. They will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process when conducting fieldwork, collecting and organizing data, and analysing spatial images such as different types of maps and aerial photographs. (Prerequisite: Canadian Geographic Issues, Grade 9, Academic or Applied.)"
CHA3UI	American History	11	Canadian and World Studies	University	"This course traces the social, economic, and political development of the United States from colonial times to the present. Students will explore the historical context of key developments that shaped the United States, its identity and culture, and its role in the global community. They will extend their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating forces in American history. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Canadian History Since World War I, Academic or Applied.)"
CHW3MI	World History to the End of the 15thCentury	11	Canadian and World Studies	University/College	"This course explores the history of various societies around the world, from earliest times to around 1500 CE. Students will examine life in and the legacy of various ancient and pre-modern societies throughout the world, including those in, Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Americas. Students will extend their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating social, political, and economic structures and historical forces at work in various societies and in different historical eras. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Canadian History Since World War I, Academic or Applied.)"
CLU3MI	Understanding Canadian Law	11	Canadian and World Studies	University/College	"This course explores Canadian law, with a focus on legal issues that are relevant to the lives of people in Canada. Students will gain an understanding of rights and freedoms in Canada, our legal system, and family, contract, employment, tort, and criminal law. Students will use case studies and apply the concepts of legal thinking and the legal inquiry process to develop legal reasoning skills and to formulate and communicate informed interpretations of legal issues, and they will develop the ability to advocate for new laws. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Canadian History Since World War I, Academic or Applied.)"
CGO4MI	Spatial Technologies in Action	12	Canadian and World Studies	University/College	"This course provides a foundation for students who wish to pursue a career that requires the ability to use computer-based spatial technologies. Students will analyse and propose solutions to real-life issues related to spatial organization, such as determining transportation routes, the most appropriate location for community services, or potential conservation and preservation areas. Students will extend their ability to use geographic information systems (GIS), global positioning systems (GPS), and remote sensing and to create maps, charts, and graphs. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process to investigate various issues related to spatial organization. (Prerequisite: Any University, University/College, or College preparation course in Canadian and World Studies, English, or Social Sciences and Humanities.)"
CGW4UI	World Issues: A Geographic Analysis	12	Canadian and World Studies	University	"This course looks at the global challenge of creating a more sustainable and equitable world. Students will explore a range of issues involving environmental, economic, social, and geopolitical interrelationships, and will examine governmental policies related to these issues. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate these complex issues, including their impact on natural and human communities around the world. (Prerequisite: Any University or University/College preparation course in Canadian and World Studies, English, or Social Sciences and Humanities.)"
CHM4EI	Adventures in World History	12	Canadian and World Studies	Workplace	"This course examines significant developments and events in world history from earliest times to the present. Students will explore social, economic, and political forces in different times and places, and how technology, art, and religion have helped shape people’s lives and identities. Students will apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating a variety of human experiences in world history. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Canadian History Since World War I, Academic or Applied, or a locally developed compulsory course.)"
CHY4UI	World History Since the 15th Century	12	Canadian and World Studies	University	"This course traces major developments and events in world history since approximately 1450. Students will explore social, economic, and political changes, the historical roots of contemporary issues, and the role of conflict and cooperation in global interrelationships. They will extend their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, as they investigate key issues and assess societal progress or decline in world history. (Prerequisite: Any University or University/College preparation course in Canadian and World Studies, English, or Social Sciences and Humanities.)"
CIA4UI	Analyzing Current Economic Issues	12	Canadian and World Studies	University	"This course examines current national and global economic trends and policies from diverse perspectives. Students will explore the impact of choices that individuals and institutions, including governments, make in responding to local, national, and global economic issues such as globalization and global economic inequalities, trade agreements, national debt, taxation, social spending, and consumer debt. Students will apply the concepts of economic thinking and the economic inquiry process, including economic models, to investigate, and develop informed opinions about, current economic issues and to help them make reasoned economic decisions. (Prerequisite: Any University or University/College preparation course in Canadian and World Studies, English, or Social Sciences and Humanities.)"
CLN4UI	Canadian and International Law	12	Canadian and World Studies	University	"This course explores a range of contemporary legal issues and how they are addressed in both Canadian and international law. Students will develop their understanding of the principles of Canadian and international law when exploring rights and freedoms within the context of topics such as religion, security, cyberspace, immigration, crimes against humanity, and environmental protection. Students will apply the concepts of legal thinking and the legal inquiry process when investigating these issues in both Canadian and international contexts, and they will develop legal reasoning skills and an understanding of conflict resolution in the area of international law. (Prerequisite: Any University or University/College preparation course in Canadian and World Studies, English, or Social Sciences and Humanities.)"
CPW4UI	Canadian and International Politics	12	Canadian and World Studies	Univerisy 	"This course explores various perspectives on issues in Canadian and world politics. Students will explore political decision-making and ways in which individuals, stakeholder groups, and various institutions, including different levels of government, multinational corporations, and non-governmental organizations, respond to and work to influence domestic and international developments. Students will apply the concepts of political thinking and the political inquiry process to investigate current political policies, issues, and events, and to develop and communicate informed opinions about them. (Prerequisite: Any University or University/College preparation course in Canadian and World Studies, English, or Social Sciences and Humanities.)"
LVLBDI	Latin: Level 1	9	Classical Studies and International Languages	Academic	There is no description for this course.
LVLCUI	Latin: Level 2	10	Classical Studies and International Languages	University	"This course provides students with opportunities to further develop their knowledge of the rich cultural legacy of the Classical world through the study of Latin or ancient Greek. Students will continue to increase their vocabulary and consolidate their grammatical knowledge by reading and translating a broad selection of adapted and original Classical texts. Although English is the language of instruction, students will continue to develop their proficiency in reading and speaking the Classical language. Students will engage in a variety of activities to strengthen their literacy and research skills and to enhance their ability to make connections between the Classical world and other societies. (Prerequisite: Level 2 Classical Languages, University.)"
LVLDUI	Latin: Level 3	11	Classical Studies and International Languages	University	There is no description for this course.
LVV4UI	Classical Civilizations	10	Classical Studies and International Languages	No Type Available	"This course introduces students to the rich cultural legacy of the Classical world and encourages them to make connections between antiquity and other societies and to their own personal experiences. Students will investigate such aspects of Classical culture as its mythology and literature, art, architecture, philosophy, science, and technology, as well as elements of the ancient Greek and Latin languages. By reading Classical authors in English translation and examining material culture brought to light through archaeology, students will enhance both their communication skills and their ability to think critically and creatively. In addition, they will be encouraged to be culturally sensitive, independent learners who appreciate the interconnectedness of ancient and modern societies and who will be able to apply this understanding to their future endeavours. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 10, Academic or Applied.)"
LWSBDI	Spanish: Level 2	11	Classical Studies and International Languages	Academic	"This course enables students to develop competence in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in the language of study. Students will continue to participate in interactive activities in which they can apply and develop their language skills to communicate with native speakers of the language. They will explore aspects of culture in regions of the world where the language is spoken, including social customs, food, sports and leisure activities, popular festivals, and music. Although students will expand their vocabulary and knowledge of linguistic elements, the language they will use at this level will still be simple."
LWSCUI	Spanish: Level 3	12	Classical Studies and International Languages	Academic	"This course offers students opportunities to further develop competence and confidence in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in the language of study. Students will participate in interactive activities (e.g., discussions about literature, travel, shopping) in which they will further develop their knowledge of linguistic elements. They will continue to explore aspects of culture in regions of the world where the language is spoken, including fashion, historical figures, art, and architecture. Students will enhance their critical and creative thinking skills through reading diverse materials, including original literature, and will explore a variety of personal and professional contexts in which knowledge of the international language is required. (Prerequisite: Level 2 International Languages, Academic.)"
ENG1PI	English	9	English	Applied	"This course is designed to develop the key oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills students need for success in secondary school and daily life. Students will read, interpret, and create a variety of informational, literary, and graphic texts. An important focus will be on identifying and using appropriate strategies and processes to improve students’ comprehension of texts and to help them communicate clearly and effectively. The course is intended to prepare students for the Grade 10 applied English course, which leads to college or workplace preparation courses in Grades 11 and 12."
ENG1DI	English	9	English	Academic	"This course is designed to develop the oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyse literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. The course is intended to prepare students for the Grade 10 academic English course, which leads to university or college preparation courses in Grades 11 and 12."
ENG1DW	English	9	English	Pre-AP	There is no description for this course.
ENG2PI	English	10	English	Applied	"This course is designed to extend the range of oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in secondary school and daily life. Students will study and create a variety of informational, literary, and graphic texts. An important focus will be on the consolidation of strategies and processes that help students interpret texts and communicate clearly and effectively. This course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 11 college or workplace preparation course. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 9, Academic or Applied.)"
ENG2DI	English	10	English	Academic	"This course is designed to extend the range of oral communication, reading, writing, and media literacy skills that students need for success in their secondary school academic programs and in their daily lives. Students will analyse literary texts from contemporary and historical periods, interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on the selective use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. This course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 1l university or college preparation course. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 9, Academic or Applied.)"
ENG2DW	English	10	English	Pre-AP	There is no description for this course.
ENG3CI	English	11	English	College	"This course emphasizes the development of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will study the content, form, and style of a variety of informational and graphic texts, as well as literary texts from Canada and other countries, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for practical and academic purposes. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 college preparation course. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 10, Applied.)"
ENG3EI	English	11	English	Workplace	"This course emphasizes the development of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in the workplace and in daily life. Students will study the content, form, and style of a variety of contemporary informational, graphic, and literary texts; and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for practical purposes. An important focus will be on using language clearly and accurately in a variety of formal and informal contexts. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 workplace preparation course. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 10, Applied or Essential English, Grade 10, Locally Developed.)"
ENG3UI	English	11	English	University	"This course emphasizes the development of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures, as well as a range of informational and graphic texts, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity and incorporating stylistic devices appropriately and effectively. The course is intended to prepare students for the compulsory Grade 12 university or college preparation course. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 10, Academic.)"
ENG3UW	English	11	English	University (Pre-AP)	There is no description for this course.
ENG4CI	English	12	English	College	"This course emphasizes the consolidation of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse a variety of informational and graphic texts, as well as literary texts from various countries and cultures, and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for practical and academic purposes. An important focus will be on using language with precision and clarity and developing greater control in writing. The course is intended to prepare students for college or the workplace. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, College Preparation.)"
ENG4EI	English	12	English	Workplace	"This course emphasizes the consolidation of literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in the workplace and in daily life. Students will analyse informational, graphic, and literary texts and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms for workplace-related and practical purposes. An important focus will be on using language accurately and organizing ideas and information coherently. The course is intended to prepare students for the workplace and active citizenship. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, Workplace Preparation.)"
ENG4UI	English	12	English	University	"This course emphasizes the consolidation of the literacy, communication, and critical and creative thinking skills necessary for success in academic and daily life. Students will analyse a range of challenging literary texts from various periods, countries, and cultures; interpret and evaluate informational and graphic texts; and create oral, written, and media texts in a variety of forms. An important focus will be on using academic language coherently and confidently, selecting the reading strategies best suited to particular texts and particular purposes for reading, and developing greater control in writing. The course is intended to prepare students for university, college, or the workplace. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, University Preparation.)"
ENG4UW	English	12	English	University (AP)	There is no description for this course.
ETS4UY	Studies in Literature (Media)	12	English	University	There is no description for this course.
EWC4CI	The Writer's Craft	12	English	College	"This course emphasizes knowledge and skills related to the craft of writing. Students will investigate models of effective writing; use a workshop approach to write a variety of works; and make considered decisions for improving the quality of their writing. They will also complete a creative or analytical independent study project and investigate opportunities for publication and for writing careers. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, College Preparation.)"
EWC4UI	The Writer's Craft	12	English	University	"This course emphasizes knowledge and skills related to the craft of writing. Students will analyse models of effective writing; use a workshop approach to produce a range of works; identify and use techniques required for specialized forms of writing; and identify effective ways to improve the quality of their writing. They will also complete a major paper as part of a creative or analytical independent study project and investigate opportunities for publication and for writing careers. (Prerequisite: English, Grade 11, University Preparation.)"
OLC4OI	Literacy Skills	12	English	Open	"This course is designed to help students acquire and demonstrate the cross-curricular literacy skills that are evaluated by the Ontario Secondary School Literacy Test (OSSLT). Students who complete the course successfully will meet the provincial literacy requirement for graduation. Students will read a variety of informational, narrative, and graphic texts and will produce a variety of forms of writing, including summaries, information paragraphs, opinion pieces, and news reports. Students will also maintain and manage a portfolio containing a record of their reading experiences and samples of their writing. (Eligibility requirement: Students who have been unsuccessful at least once on the Ontario Secondary School Literacy Test are eligible to take the course.)"
ESLAOI	"Beginning Communication in English, ESL, Level 1"	9	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course builds on students’ previous education and language knowledge to introduce the English language and help students adjust to their new cultural environment. Students will use beginning English language skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing for everyday and essential academic purposes; use basic English language structures and simple sentence patterns in short conversations; read short adapted texts; and write phrases and short sentences. The course also provides students with the knowledge and skills they need to begin to adapt to their new lives in Canada."
ESLBOI	"English in Daily Life, ESL, Level 2"	9	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course expands students' listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in English for everyday and academic purposes. Students will participate in conversations, in structured situations, on a variety of familiar and new topics; link English sentences to compose paragraphs; read a variety of texts designed or adapted for English language learners; and expand their knowledge of English grammatical structures and sentence patterns. The course also supports students' continuing adaptation to the Ontario school system by expanding their cultural knowledge of their new province and country. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 1, or equivalent.)"
ESLCOI	"English for School and Work, ESL Level 3"	9	English Language Learners	Open	"This course extends students’ skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in English for a variety of everyday and academic purposes. Students will make short classroom presentations; read a variety of adapted and original texts in English; and write using a variety of forms of text. Students will also expand their academic vocabulary and their study skills to facilitate the transition to the mainstream school program. This course also introduces students to the rights and responsibilities inherent in Canadian citizenship, and to a variety of current Canadian issues. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 2, or equivalent.) Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
ESLDOI	"Studies in Academic English, ESL, Level 4"	9	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course prepares students to use English with increasing fluency and accuracy in classroom and social situations and to participate in Canadian society as informed citizens. Students will develop the reading, writing, and oral presentation skills required for success in all school subjects. They will study and interpret a variety of grade-level texts; extend listening and speaking skills through participation in discussions and seminars; write narratives, articles, and summaries in English; and respond critically to various print and media texts. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 3, or equivalent.)"
ESLEOI	"Bridge to Mainstream English,ESL, Level 5"	9	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course provides students with the skills and strategies they need to make the transition to college and university preparation courses in English and other secondary school disciplines. Students will be encouraged to develop independence in a range of academic tasks. They will participate in debates and lead classroom workshops; read and interpret literary works and academic texts; write essays, narratives, and reports; and apply a range of learning strategies and research skills effectively. Students will further develop their ability to respond critically to print and media texts. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 4, or equivalent.)"
ELS2OZ	Literacy Sills: Reading and Writing	9	English Language Learners	Open	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
GLS4OZ	TOEFL Preparation	9	English Language Learners	ESL	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
BTT1OZ	Introduction to Information Technology in Business	9	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course introduces students to information and communication technology in a business environment and builds a foundation of digital literacy skills necessary for success in a technologically driven society. Students will develop word processing, spreadsheet, database, desktop publishing, presentation software, and website design skills. Throughout the course, there is an emphasis on digital literacy, effective electronic research and communication skills, and current issues related to the impact of information and communication technology."
CGC1DZ	Issues in Canadian Geography	9	English Language Learners	Academic	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course examines interrelationships within and between Canada’s natural and human systems and how these systems interconnect with those in other parts of the world. Students will explore environmental, economic, and social geographic issues relating to topics such as transportation options, energy choices, and urban development. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate various geographic issues and to develop possible approaches for making Canada a more sustainable place to live."
CGC1PZ	Issues in Canadian Geography	9	English Language Learners	Applied	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course focuses on current geographic issues that affect Canadians. Students will draw on their personal and everyday experiences as they explore a range of issues, including food and water supplies, competing land uses, and interactions with the natural environment, developing their awareness that issues that affect their lives are interconnected with issues in other parts of the world. Students will apply the concepts of geographic thinking and the geographic inquiry process, including spatial technologies, to investigate choices related to sustainable living in Canada. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
FSF1PZ	ESL Beginner French	9	English Language Learners	Applied	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course provides opportunities for students to communicate and interact in French in structured situations on everyday topics and to apply their knowledge of French in everyday situations. Students will continue to develop language knowledge and skills introduced in the elementary Core French program, through practical applications and concrete examples, and will use creative and critical thinking skills in various ways. They will also enhance their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and will develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners. (Prerequisite: Minimum of 600 hours of elementary Core French instruction, or equivalent.) Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
HIF1OZ	Exploring Family Studies	9	English Language Learners	Open	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course explores, within the context of families, some of the fundamental challenges people face: how to meet basic needs, how to relate to others, how to manage resources, and how to become responsible members of society. Students will explore adolescent development and will have opportunities to develop interpersonal, decision-making, and practical skills related to daily life. They will learn about the diverse ways in which families function in Canada and will use research skills as they explore topics related to individual and family needs and resources. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
MFM1PZ	Foundations of Mathematics	9	English Language Learners	Applied	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course enables students to develop understanding of mathematical concepts related to introductory algebra, proportional reasoning, and measurement and geometry through investigation, the effective use of technology, and hands-on activities. Students will investigate real-life examples to develop various representations of linear relationships, and will determine the connections between the representations. They will also explore certain relationships that emerge from the measurement of three-dimensional objects and two-dimensional shapes. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
SNC1DZ	Science	9	English Language Learners	Academic	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and to relate science to technology, society, and the environment. Throughout the course, students will develop their skills in the processes of scientific investigation. Students will acquire an understanding of scientific theories and conduct investigations related to sustainable ecosystems; atomic and molecular structures and the properties of elements and compounds; the study of the universe and its properties and components; and the principles of electricity. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
SNC1PZ	Science	9	English Language Learners	Applied	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and to apply their knowledge of science to everyday situations. They are also given opportunities to develop practical skills related to scientific investigation. Students will plan and conduct investigations into practical problems and issues related to the impact of human activity on ecosystems; the structure and properties of elements and compounds; space exploration and the components of the universe; and static and current electricity. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
BTT2OZ	Introduction to Information Technology in Business	10	English Language Learners	Open	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course introduces students to information and communication technology in a business environment and builds a foundation of digital literacy skills necessary for success in a technologically driven society. Students will develop word processing, spreadsheet, database, desktop publishing, presentation software, and website design skills. Throughout the course, there is an emphasis on digital literacy, effective electronic research and communication skills, and current issues related to the impact of information and communication technology. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
CHC2DZ	Canadian History in the 20th Century	10	English Language Learners	Academic	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
CHC2PZ	Canadian History in the 20th Century	10	English Language Learners	Applied	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course focuses on the social context of historical developments and events and how they have affected the lives of people in Canada since 1914. Students will explore interactions between various communities in Canada as well as contributions of individuals and groups to Canadian heritage and identity. Students will develop their ability to apply the concepts of historical thinking and the historical inquiry process, including the interpretation and analysis of evidence, when investigating the continuing relevance of historical developments and how they have helped shape communities in present-day Canada. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
CHV2OZ	Civics and Citizenship	10	English Language Learners	Open	"This 0.5 credit course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course explores rights and responsibilities associated with being an active citizen in a democratic society. Students will explore issues of civic importance such as healthy schools, community planning, environmental responsibility, and the influence of social media, while developing their understanding of the role of civic engagement and of political processes in the local, national, and/or global community. Students will apply the concepts of political thinking and the political inquiry process to investigate, and express informed opinions about, a range of political issues and developments that are both of significance in today’s world and of personal interest to them. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
ELS2OZ	Literacy Skills: Reading and Writing	10	English Language Learners	Open	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
GLC2OZ	Career Studies	10	English Language Learners	Open	"This 0.5 credit course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD programs. This course teaches students how to develop and achieve personal goals for future learning, work, and community involvement. Students will assess their interests, skills, and characteristics and investigate current economic and workplace trends, work opportunities, and ways to search for work. The course explores postsecondary learning and career options, prepares students for managing work and life transitions, and helps students focus on their goals through the development of a career plan. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
HFN2OZ	Food and Nutrition	10	English Language Learners	Open	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course focuses on guidelines for making nutritious food choices. Students will investigate factors that influence food choices, including beliefs, attitudes, current trends, traditional eating patterns, food marketing strategies, and individual needs. Students will also explore the environmental impact of a variety of food choices at the local and global level. The course provides students with opportunities to develop food preparation skills and introduces them to the use of social science research methods in the area of food and nutrition. Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
MFM2PZ	Foundations of Mathematics	10	English Language Learners	Applied	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course enables students to consolidate their understanding of relationships and extend their problem-solving and algebraic skills through investigation, the effective use of technology, and hands-on activities. Students will develop and graph equations in analytic geometry; solve and apply linear systems, using real-life examples; and explore and interpret graphs of quadratic relationships. Students will investigate similar triangles, the trigonometry of right-angles triangles, and the measurement of three-dimensional objects. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Mathematics, Academic or Applied.) Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
PAI2OZ	Healthy Active Living and Individual Small Group Activities (Racquet Sports)	10	English Language Learners	Open (CoEd)	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
SNC2DZ	Science	10	English Language Learners	Academic	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course enables students to enhance their understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and of the interrelationships between science, technology, society, and the environment. Students are also given opportunities to further develop their scientific investigation skills. Students will plan and conduct investigations and develop their understanding of scientific theories related to the connections between cells and systems in animals and plants; chemical reactions, with a particular focus on acid–base reactions; forces that affect climate and climate change; and the interaction of light and matter. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Science, Academic or Applied.) Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
SNC2PZ	Science	10	English Language Learners	Applied	"This course is for students enrolled in the ESL/ELD program. This course enables students to develop a deeper understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and to apply their knowledge of science in real-world situations. Students are given opportunities to develop further practical skills in scientific investigation. Students will plan and conduct investigations into everyday problems and issues related to human cells and body systems; chemical reactions; factors affecting climate change; and the interaction of light and matter. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Science, Academic or Applied.) Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. "
AVI3OZ	Visual Arts for Senior ELL's	11	English Language Learners	ESL	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
GLS4OZ	TOEFL Preparation	11	English Language Learners	ESL	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
SVN3MZ	Environmental Science	11	English Language Learners	ESL - University/College	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
FEF1DI	Extended French	9	French As a Second Language	Academic	"This course provides opportunities for students to speak and interact in French in a variety of real-life and personally relevant contexts. Students will continue to use language-learning strategies introduced in the elementary Extended French program. They will develop their creative and critical thinking skills, through independently responding to and interacting with a variety of oral and written texts, and will continue to enhance their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities. They will also develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners. (Prerequisite: Minimum of 1260 hours of instruction in elementary Extended French, or equivalent.)"
FSF1DI	Core French	9	French As a Second Language	Academic	"This course provides opportunities for students to communicate and interact in French with increasing independence, with a focus on familiar topics related to their daily lives. Students will continue to develop language knowledge and skills by using language-learning strategies introduced in the elementary Core French program, and will apply creative and critical thinking skills in various ways. They will also enhance their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and will develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners. (Prerequisite: Minimum of 600 hours of elementary Core French instruction, or equivalent.)"
FSF1PI	Core French	9	French As a Second Language	Applied	"This course provides opportunities for students to communicate and interact in French in structured situations on everyday topics and to apply their knowledge of French in everyday situations. Students will continue to develop language knowledge and skills introduced in the elementary Core French program, through practical applications and concrete examples, and will use creative and critical thinking skills in various ways. They will also enhance their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and will develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners. (Prerequisite: Minimum of 600 hours of elementary Core French instruction, or equivalent.)"
FEF2DI	Extended French	10	French As a Second Language	Academic	"This course provides extensive opportunities for students to use their communication skills in French and to apply language-learning strategies. Students will respond to and interact with French oral and written texts in a variety of real-life contexts, using their creative and critical thinking skills to explore and evaluate information and ideas in the texts. Students will increase their knowledge of the language through the study of French-Canadian authors. They will also continue to increase their understanding and appreciation of French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Extended French, Academic.)"
FSF2DI	Core French	10	French As a Second Language	Academic 	"This course provides opportunities for students to communicate in French about personally relevant, familiar, and academic topics in real-life situations with increasing independence. Students will exchange information, ideas, and opinions with others in guided and increasingly spontaneous spoken interactions. Students will continue to develop their language knowledge and skills through the selective use of strategies that contribute to effective communication. They will also increase their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and will continue to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Core French, Academic or Applied.)"
FSF2DW	Core French	10	French As a Second Language	Academic (Pre-AP)	There is no description for this course.
FEF3UI	Extended French	11	French As a Second Language	University	"This course provides opportunities for students to communicate about concrete and abstract topics in various situations. Students will consolidate language-learning strategies and apply them in a variety of real-life contexts in order to enhance and refine their communication skills, and will continue to develop creative and critical thinking skills. Students will develop their knowledge of the language through the study of contemporary and well-known French European authors. They will also continue to deepen their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities, and develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Extended French, Academic.)"
FSF3UI	Core French	11	French As a Second Language	University	"This course offers students extended opportunities to speak and interact in real-life situations in French with greater independence. Students will develop their creative and critical thinking skills through responding to and exploring a variety of oral and written texts. They will continue to broaden their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary for life-long language learning. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Core French, Academic.)"
FSF3UW	Core French	11	French As a Second Language	University (Pre-AP)	There is no description for this course.
FEF4UI	Extended French	12	French As a Second Language	University	"This course further emphasizes the consolidation of communication skills required to interact in French for various purposes about concrete and abstract topics. Students will independently apply language-learning strategies in a variety of real-life and personally relevant contexts, and will broaden their creative and critical thinking skills through responding to and analysing oral and written texts. Students will increase their knowledge of the language through the study of Canadian and international French literature. They will also continue to enrich their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary to become life-long language learners. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Extended French, University Preparation.)"
FEF4UW	Extended French	12	French As a Second Language	University (AP)	There is no description for this course.
FSF4UI	Core French	12	French As a Second Language	University	"This course provides extensive opportunities for students to speak and interact in French independently. Students will apply language-learning strategies in a wide variety of real-life situations, and will continue to develop their creative and critical thinking skills through responding to and interacting with a variety of oral and written texts. Students will also continue to enrich their understanding and appreciation of diverse French-speaking communities and to develop the skills necessary for life-long language learning. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Core French, University Preparation.)"
FSF4UW	Core French	12	French As a Second Language	University (AP)	There is no description for this course.
GLC2OH	Career Studies	10	Guidance and Career Education and Coop	Open	"This is a 0.5 credit course. This course teaches students how to develop and achieve personal goals for future learning, work, and community involvement. Students will assess their interests, skills, and characteristics and investigate current economic and workplace trends, work opportunities, and ways to search for work. The course explores postsecondary learning and career options, prepares students for managing work and life transitions, and helps students focus on their goals through the development of a career plan. Coop education is available to senior students. Placements are accessible in a wide range of fields related to current and future areas of study. See Mr. Rintche or Guidance for applications and more information."
GLC2OF	"Career Studies, Extended French"	10	Guidance and Career Education and Coop	Open	"This 0.5 credit course is offered with French as the language of instruction. This course teaches students how to develop and achieve personal goals for future learning, work, and community involvement. Students will assess their interests, skills, and characteristics and investigate current economic and workplace trends, work opportunities, and ways to search for work. The course explores postsecondary learning and career options, prepares students for managing work and life transitions, and helps students focus on their goals through the development of a career plan. Coop education is available to senior students. Placements are accessible in a wide range of fields related to current and future areas of study. See Mr. Rintche or Guidance for applications and more information."
COP3O2	Co-op Education	11	Guidance and Career Education and Coop	2 Credit	Coop education is available to senior students. Placements are accessible in a wide range of fields related to current and future areas of study. See Mr. Rintche or Guidance for applications and more information.
COP3O3	Co-op Education	11	Guidance and Career Education and Coop	3 Credit	Coop education is available to senior students. Placements are accessible in a wide range of fields related to current and future areas of study. See Mr. Rintche or Guidance for applications and more information.
COP4O2	Co-op Education	12	Guidance and Career Education and Coop	2 Credit	Coop education is available to senior students. Placements are accessible in a wide range of fields related to current and future areas of study. See Mr. Rintche or Guidance for applications and more information.
COP4O3	Co-op Education	12	Guidance and Career Education and Coop	3 Credit	Coop education is available to senior students. Placements are accessible in a wide range of fields related to current and future areas of study. See Mr. Rintche or Guidance for applications and more information.
COP4O4	Co-op Education	12	Guidance and Career Education and Coop	4 Credit	Coop education is available to senior students. Placements are accessible in a wide range of fields related to current and future areas of study. See Mr. Rintche or Guidance for applications and more information.
PPL1OX	Healthy Active Living Education	9	Health and Physical Education	Open (Female)	"This course equips students with the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively. Highly Recommended."
PPL1OY	Healthy Active Living Education	9	Health and Physical Education	Open (Male)	"This course equips students with the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively. Highly Recommended."
PAF2OX	"Live Fit I (Fitness Enthusiast), Fitness Activities"	10	Health and Physical Education	Open (Female)	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PAF2OY	"Healthy Active Living Education, Personal and Fitness Activities"	10	Health and Physical Education	Open (Male)	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PAI2OI	Healthy Active Living and Individual Small Group Activities (Racquet Sports)	10	Health and Physical Education	Open (CoEd)	There is no description for this course.
PPL2OX	Healthy Active Living Education	10	Health and Physical Education	Open (Female)	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PPL2OY	Healthy Active Living Education	10	Health and Physical Education	Open (Male)	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities, students develop knowledge and skills related to movement competence and personal fitness that provide a foundation for active living. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PAF3OX	Live Fit II (Fitness Advanced Training)	11	Health and Physical Education	Open	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities and exposure to a broader range of activity settings, students enhance their movement competence, personal fitness, and confidence. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PPL3OX	Healthy Active Living Education	11	Health and Physical Education	Open - Male	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities and exposure to a broader range of activity settings, students enhance their movement competence, personal fitness, and confidence. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PPL3OY	Healthy Active Living Education	11	Health and Physical Education	Open - Female	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities and exposure to a broader range of activity settings, students enhance their movement competence, personal fitness, and confidence. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PAF3OX	"Health for Life, O, Power Fit"	11	Health and Physical Education	Female	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities and exposure to a broader range of activity settings, students enhance their movement competence, personal fitness, and confidence. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PAF3OY	"Health for Life, O, Power Fit"	11	Health and Physical Education	Male	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices now and lead healthy, active lives in the future. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities and exposure to a broader range of activity settings, students enhance their movement competence, personal fitness, and confidence. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PAF4OI	Personal and Fitness Activities	12	Health and Physical Education	Open	There is no description for this course.
PLF4MI	Athletic Leadership	12	Health and Physical Education	University/College (Application Process)	"Recreation and Fitness Leadership - This course enables students to explore the benefits of lifelong participation in active recreation and healthy leisure and to develop the leadership and coordinating skills needed to plan, organize, and safely implement recreational events and other activities related to healthy, active living. Students will also learn how to promote the benefits of healthy, active living to others through mentoring and assisting them in making informed decisions that enhance their well-being. The course will prepare students for university programs in physical education and health and kinesiology and for college and university programs in recreation and leisure management, fitness and health promotion, and fitness leadership. (Prerequisite: Any Grade 11 or 12 open course in Health and Physical Education.)"
PPL4OI	Healthy Active Living Education	12	Health and Physical Education	Open	"This course enables students to further develop the knowledge and skills they need to make healthy choices. It places special emphasis on how students can maintain the habits of healthy, active living throughout their lives as they make the transition to adulthood and independent living. Through participation in a wide range of physical activities in a variety of settings, students can enhance their movement competence, personal fitness, and confidence. Students also acquire an understanding of the factors and skills that contribute to healthy development and learn how their own well-being is affected by, and affects, the world around them. Students build their sense of self, learn to interact positively with others, and develop their ability to think critically and creatively."
PSK4UI	Exercise Science	12	Health and Physical Education	University	"Introductory Kinesiology - This course focuses on the study of human movement and of systems, factors, and principles involved in human development. Students will learn about the effects of physical activity on health and performance, the evolution of physical activity and sport, and the physiological, psychological, and social factors that influence an individual’s participation in physical activity and sport. The course prepares students for university programs in physical education and health, kinesiology, health sciences, health studies, recreation, and sports administration. (Prerequisite: Any Grade 11 University or University/College preparation course in Science, or any Grade 11 or 12 open course in Health and Physical Education.)"
GPP3OX	Wellness for Life	11	Interdisciplinary Studies	Open	"Leadership and Peer Support: This course emphasizes community based leadership and peer support. This course prepares students to act in leadership and peer support roles. They will design and implement a plan for contributing to their school and/or community; develop skills in communication, interpersonal relations, teamwork, and conflict management; and apply those skills in leadership and/or peer support roles - for example, as a student council member or a peer tutor. Students will examine group dynamics and learn the value of diversity within groups and communities."
IDC3OY	Interdiscplinary Studies	11	Interdisciplinary Studies	Open Leadership (Application Process)	There is no description for this course.
IDC4OY	Interdisciplinary Studies	12	Interdisciplinary Studies	 Open Leadership (Application Process)	There is no description for this course.
IDC4UI	"Interdisciplinary Studies, Yearbook"	12	Interdisciplinary Studies	University	"Applied Journalism - This course will help students develop practical skills in the areas of photography, image manipulation, design and layout, research and writing, and marketing. This course will help students develop and consolidate the skills required for and knowledge of different subjects/disciplines to solve problems, make decisions, create personal meaning, and present findings beyond the scope of a single subject/discipline. Students will apply the principles and processes of inquiry and research to effectively use a range of print, electronic, and mass media resources; to analyse historical innovations and exemplary research; and to investigate real-life situations and career opportunities in interdisciplinary endeavours. They will also assess their own cognitive and affective strategies, apply general skills in both familiar and new contexts, create innovative products, and communicate new knowledge. (Prerequisite: Any University or University/College preparation course.)"
MFM1PI	Foundations of Mathematics	9	Mathematics	Applied	"This course enables students to develop understanding of mathematical concepts related to introductory algebra, proportional reasoning, and measurement and geometry through investigation, the effective use of technology, and hands-on activities. Students will investigate real-life examples to develop various representations of linear relationships, and will determine the connections between the representations. They will also explore certain relationships that emerge from the measurement of three-dimensional objects and two-dimensional shapes. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking."
MPM1DI	Principles of Mathematics	9	Mathematics	Academic	"This course enables students to develop understanding of mathematical concepts related to algebra, analytic geometry, and measurement and geometry through investigation, the effective use of technology, and abstract reasoning. Students will investigate relationships, which they will then generalize as equations of lines, and will determine the connections between different representations of a relationship. They will also explore relationships that emerge from the measurement of three-dimensional objects and two-dimensional shapes. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multistep problems."
MPM1DW	Principles of Mathematics	9	Mathematics	Academic (Pre-AP)	There is no description for this course.
MFM2PI	Foundations of Mathematics	10	Mathematics	Applied	"This course enables students to consolidate their understanding of relationships and extend their problem-solving and algebraic skills through investigation, the effective use of technology, and hands-on activities. Students will develop and graph equations in analytic geometry; solve and apply linear systems, using real-life examples; and explore and interpret graphs of quadratic relationships. Students will investigate similar triangles, the trigonometry of right-angles triangles, and the measurement of three-dimensional objects. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Mathematics, Academic or Applied.)"
MPM2DI	Principles of Mathematics	10	Mathematics	Academic	"(Recommend MPM1DI 70%+) - This course enables students to broaden their understanding of relationships and extend their problem-solving and algebraic skills through investigation, the effective use of technology, and abstract reasoning. Students will explore quadratic relationships and their applications; solve and apply linear systems; verify properties of geometric figures using analytic geometry; and investigate the trigonometry of right and acute triangles. Students will reason mathematically as they solve multistep problems and communicate their thinking. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Mathematics, Academic.)"
MPM2DW	Principles of Mathematics	10	Mathematics	Academic (Pre-AP)	There is no description for this course.
MBF3CI	Foundations for College	11	Mathematics	College	"This course enables students to broaden their understanding of mathematics as a problem-solving tool in the real world. Students will extend their understanding of quadratic relations, as well as of measurement and geometry; investigate situations involving exponential growth; solve problems involving compound interest; solve financial problems connected with vehicle ownership; and develop their ability to reason by collecting, analysing, and evaluating data involving one and two variables. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Foundations of Mathematics, Applied.)"
MCF3MI	Functions and Applications	11	Mathematics	University/College	"(Recommend MPM2DI 60%+) - This course introduces basic features of the function by extending students' experiences with quadratic relations. It focuses on quadratic, trigonometric, and exponential functions and their use in modelling real-world situations. Students will represent functions numerically, graphically, and algebraically; simplify expressions; solve equations; and solve problems relating to financial and trigonometric applications. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Principles of Mathematics, Academic, or Grade 10 Foundations of Mathematics, Applied.)"
MCR3UI	Functions	11	Mathematics	University	"(Recommend MPM2DI 70%+) - This course introduces the mathematical concept of the function by extending students' experiences with linear and quadratic relations. Students will investigate properties of discrete and continuous functions, including trigonometric and exponential functions; represent functions numerically, algebraically, and graphically; solve problems involving applications of functions; and develop facility in simplifying polynomial and rational expressions. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Principles o£ Mathematics, Academic.)"
MCR3UW	Functions	11	Mathematics	University (Pre-AP)	There is no description for this course.
MEL3EI	Mathematics for Work and Everyday Life	11	Mathematics	Workplace	"This course enables students to broaden their understanding of mathematics as it is applied in the workplace and daily life. Students will solve problems associated with earning money, paying taxes, and making purchases; apply calculations of simple and compound interest in saving, investing, and borrowing; and calculate the costs of transportation and travel in a variety of situations. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Foundations of Mathematics, Applied, or Essential Mathematics, Grade 10, Locally Developed.)"
MAP4CI	Foundations for College	12	Mathematics	College	"This course enables students to broaden their understanding of real-world applications of mathematics. Students will analyse data using statistical methods; solve problems involving applications of geometry and trigonometry; simplify expressions; and solve equations. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. This course prepares students for college programs in areas such as business, health sciences, and human services, and for certain skilled trades. (Prerequisite: Foundations for College Mathematics, Grade 11, College Preparation.)"
MHF4UI	Advanced Functions	12	Mathematics	University	"This course extends students’ experience with functions. Students will investigate the properties of polynomial, rational, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions; broaden their understanding of rates of change; and develop facility in applying these concepts and skills. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended both for students who plan to study mathematics in university and for those wishing to consolidate their understanding of mathematics before proceeding to any one of a variety of university programs. (Prerequisite: Functions, Grade 11, University Preparation, or Mathematics for College Technology, Grade 12, College Preparation.)"
MCT4CI	Mathematics for College Technology	12	Mathematics	College	"This course enables students to extend their knowledge of functions. Students will investigate and apply properties of polynomial, exponential, and trigonometric functions; continue to represent functions numerically, graphically, and algebraically; develop facility in simplifying expressions and solving equations; and solve problems that address applications of algebra, trigonometry, vectors, and geometry. Students will reason mathematically and communicate their thinking as they solve multi-step problems. This course prepares students for a variety of college technology programs. (Prerequisite: Functions and Applications, Grade 11, University/College Preparation.)"
MDM4UI	Mathematics of Data Management	12	Mathematics	University	"This course broadens students’ understanding of mathematics as it relates to managing data. Students will apply methods for organizing large amounts of information; solve problems involving probability and statistics; and carry out a culminating project that integrates statistical concepts and skills. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. Students planning to enter university programs in business, the social sciences, and the humanities will find this course of particular interest. (Prerequisite: Functions and Applications, Grade 11, University/College Preparation, or Functions, Grade 11, University Preparation.)"
MEL4EI	Mathematics for Work and Everyday Life	12	Mathematics	Workplace	"This course enables students to broaden their understanding of mathematics as it is applied in the workplace and daily life. Students will investigate questions involving the use of statistics; apply the concept of probability to solve problems involving familiar situations; investigate accommodation costs and create household budgets; use proportional reasoning; estimate and measure; and apply geometric concepts to create designs. Students will consolidate their mathematical skills as they solve problems and communicate their thinking. (Prerequisite: Mathematics for Work and Everyday Life, Grade 11, Workplace Preparation.)"
MCV4UI	Calculus and Vectors	12	Mathematics	University	"Prerequisite is MHF4UI or concurrent with MHF4UI. This course builds on students’ previous experience with functions and their developing understanding of rates of change. Students will solve problems involving geometric and algebraic representations of vectors, and representations of lines and planes in three-dimensional space; broaden their understanding of rates of change to include the derivatives of polynomial, rational, exponential, and sinusoidal functions; and apply these concepts and skills to the modelling of real-world relationships. Students will also refine their use of the mathematical processes necessary for success in senior mathematics. This course is intended for students who plan to study mathematics in university and who may choose to pursue careers in fields such as physics and engineering. Note: The new Advanced Functions can be taken concurrently with or can precede Calculus and Vectors. "
MCV4UW	Calculus and Vectors	12	Mathematics	University (AP)	(concurrent with MHF4UW)
MHF4UW	Advanced Functions	12	Mathematics	University (AP)	(concurrent with MCV4UW)
NDW4MI	Issues of Indigenous Peoples in a Global Context	12	Native Studies	University/College	"This course provides students with an overview of the issues and challenges that confront indigenous peoples worldwide. Students will develop an understanding of the concerns and aspirations of the world’s indigenous population, plan and conduct research on global issues that have an impact on indigenous peoples, and use information technology to consult materials related to the views of indigenous peoples throughout the world. (Prerequisite: Any Grade 11 University, University/College, or College preparation course in Native studies.)"
SNC1DI	Science	9	Science	Academic	"This course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and to relate science to technology, society, and the environment. Throughout the course, students will develop their skills in the processes of scientific investigation. Students will acquire an understanding of scientific theories and conduct investigations related to sustainable ecosystems; atomic and molecular structures and the properties of elements and compounds; the study of the universe and its properties and components; and the principles of electricity."
SNC1DW	Science	9	Science	Academic (Pre-AP)	There is no description for this course.
SNC1PI	Science	9	Science	Applied	"This course enables students to develop their understanding of basic concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and to apply their knowledge of science to everyday situations. They are also given opportunities to develop practical skills related to scientific investigation. Students will plan and conduct investigations into practical problems and issues related to the impact of human activity on ecosystems; the structure and properties of elements and compounds; space exploration and the components of the universe; and static and current electricity."
SNC2DI	Science	10	Science	Academic	"This course enables students to enhance their understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and of the interrelationships between science, technology, society, and the environment. Students are also given opportunities to further develop their scientific investigation skills. Students will plan and conduct investigations and develop their understanding of scientific theories related to the connections between cells and systems in animals and plants; chemical reactions, with a particular focus on acid–base reactions; forces that affect climate and climate change; and the interaction of light and matter. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Science, Academic or Applied.)"
SNC2DW	Science	10	Science	Academic (Pre-AP)	There is no description for this course.
SNC2PI	Science	10	Science	Applied	"This course enables students to develop a deeper understanding of concepts in biology, chemistry, earth and space science, and physics, and to apply their knowledge of science in real-world situations. Students are given opportunities to develop further practical skills in scientific investigation. Students will plan and conduct investigations into everyday problems and issues related to human cells and body systems; chemical reactions; factors affecting climate change; and the interaction of light and matter. (Prerequisite: Grade 9 Science, Academic or Applied.)"
SBI3CI	Biology	11	Science	College	"This course focuses on the processes that occur in biological systems. Students will learn concepts and theories as they conduct investigations in the areas of cellular biology, microbiology, genetics, the anatomy of mammals, and the structure of plants and their role in the natural environment. Emphasis will be placed on the practical application of concepts, and on the skills needed for further study in various branches of the life sciences and related fields. Prerequisite: (Grade 10 Science, Academic or Applied.)"
SBI3UI	Biology	11	Science	University	"This course furthers students’ understanding of the processes that occur in biological systems. Students will study theory and conduct investigations in the areas of biodiversity; evolution; genetic processes; the structure and function of animals; and the anatomy, growth, and function of plants. The course focuses on the theoretical aspects of the topics under study, and helps students refine skills related to scientific investigation. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Science, Academic.)"
SBI3UW	Biology	11	Science	University (AP)	There is no description for this course.
SCH3UI	Chemistry	11	Science	University	"This course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of the properties of chemicals and chemical bonds; chemical reactions and quantitative relationships in those reactions; solutions and solubility; and atmospheric chemistry and the behaviour of gases. Students will further develop their analytical skills and investigate the qualitative and quantitative properties of matter, as well as the impact of some common chemical reactions on society and the environment. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Science, Academic.)"
SCH3UW	Chemistry	11	Science	University (AP)	There is no description for this course.
SPH3UI	Physics	11	Science	University	"This course develops students’ understanding of the basic concepts of physics. Students will explore kinematics, with an emphasis on linear motion; different kinds of forces; energy transformations; the properties of mechanical waves and sound; and electricity and magnetism. They will enhance their scientific investigation skills as they test laws of physics. In addition, they will analyse the interrelationships between physics and technology, and consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Science, Academic.)"
SPH3UW	Physics	11	Science	University (AP)	There is no description for this course.
SBI4UI	Biology	12	Science	University	"This course provides students with the opportunity for in-depth study of the concepts and processes that occur in biological systems. Students will study theory and conduct investigations in the areas of biochemistry, metabolic processes, molecular genetics, homeostasis, and population dynamics. Emphasis will be placed on the achievement of detailed knowledge and the refinement of skills needed for further study in various branches of the life sciences and related fields. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Biology, University.)"
SBI4UW	Biology	12	Science	University (AP)	There is no description for this course.
SCH4CI	Chemistry	12	Science	College	"This course can be taken in either grade 11 or 12. This course enables students to develop an understanding of chemistry through the study of matter and qualitative analysis, organic chemistry, electrochemistry, chemical calculations, and chemistry as it relates to the quality of the environment. Students will use a variety of laboratory techniques, develop skills in data collection and scientific analysis, and communicate scientific information using appropriate terminology. Emphasis will be placed on the role of chemistry in daily life and the effects of technological applications and processes on society and the environment. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Science, Academic or Applied.)"
SCH4UI	Chemistry	12	Science	University	"This course enables students to deepen their understanding of chemistry through the study of organic chemistry, the structure and properties of matter, energy changes and rates of reaction, equilibrium in chemical systems, and electrochemistry. Students will further develop their problem-solving and investigation skills as they investigate chemical processes, and will refine their ability to communicate scientific information. Emphasis will be placed on the importance of chemistry in everyday life and on evaluating the impact of chemical technology on the environment. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Chemistry, University.)"
SCH4UW	Chemistry	12	Science	University (AP)	There is no description for this course.
SES4UI	Earth and Space Science	12	Science	University	"This course develops students’ understanding of Earth and its place in the universe. Students will investigate the properties of and forces in the universe and solar system and analyse techniques scientists use to generate knowledge about them. Students will closely examine the materials of Earth, its internal and surficial processes, and its geological history, and will learn how Earth’s systems interact and how they have changed over time. Throughout the course, students will learn how these forces, processes, and materials affect their daily lives. The course draws on biology, chemistry, physics, and mathematics in its consideration of geological and astronomical processes that can be observed directly or inferred from other evidence. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Science, Academic.)"
SNC4MI	Science	12	Science	University/College	"This course enables students, including those pursuing post-secondary programs outside the sciences, to increase their understanding of science and contemporary social and environmental issues in health-related fields. Students will explore a variety of medical technologies, pathogens and disease, nutritional science, public health issues, and biotechnology. The course focuses on the theoretical aspects of the topics under study and helps refine students’ scientific investigation skills. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Science, Academic, or any Grade 11 university, university/college, or college preparation course in science.)"
SPH4CI	Physics	12	Science	College	"This course can be taken in either grade 11 or 12. This course develops students’ understanding of the basic concepts of physics. Students will explore these concepts with respect to motion; mechanical, electrical, electromagnetic, energy transformation, hydraulic, and pneumatic systems; and the operation of commonly used tools and machines. They will develop their scientific investigation skills as they test laws of physics and solve both assigned problems and those emerging from their investigations. Students will also consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment. (Prerequisite: Grade 10 Science, Academic or Applied.)"
SPH4UI	Physics	12	Science	University	"This course enables students to deepen their understanding of physics concepts and theories. Students will continue their exploration of energy transformations and the forces that affect motion, and will investigate electrical, gravitational, and magnetic fields and electromagnetic radiation. Students will also explore the wave nature of light, quantum mechanics, and special relativity. They will further develop their scientific investigation skills, learning, for example, how to analyse, qualitatively and quantitatively, data relating to a variety of physics concepts and principles. Students will also consider the impact of technological applications of physics on society and the environment. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Physics, University.)"
SPH4UW	Physics	12	Science	University (AP)	There is no description for this course.
HIF1OI	Exploring Family Studies	9	Social Sciences and Humanities	Open	"This course explores, within the context of families, some of the fundamental challenges people face: how to meet basic needs, how to relate to others, how to manage resources, and how to become responsible members of society. Students will explore adolescent development and will have opportunities to develop interpersonal, decision-making, and practical skills related to daily life. They will learn about the diverse ways in which families function in Canada and will use research skills as they explore topics related to individual and family needs and resources."
HFN2OI	Food and Nutrition	10	Social Sciences and Humanities	Open	"This course focuses on guidelines for making nutritious food choices. Students will investigate factors that influence food choices, including beliefs, attitudes, current trends, traditional eating patterns, food marketing strategies, and individual needs. Students will also explore the environmental impact of a variety of food choices at the local and global level. The course provides students with opportunities to develop food preparation skills and introduces them to the use of social science research methods in the area of food and nutrition."
HNC3CI	Understanding Fashion	11	Social Sciences and Humanities	College	"This course introduces students to the world of fashion. Students will gain an understanding of theories related to fashion trends and of how culture, media, fashion cycles, retailing, and social and environmental factors influence fashion trends and consumer behaviour. Students will use various tools, technologies, and techniques safely and correctly to create fashion items. They will apply knowledge of fibres, fabrics, and the elements and principles of design when creating and assessing fashion-related products. Students will develop research skills as they investigate topics related to fashion."
HPC3OI	Raising Healthy Children	11	Social Sciences and Humanities	Open	"This course focuses on the skills and knowledge parents, guardians, and caregivers need, with particular emphasis on maternal health, pregnancy, birth, and the early years of human development (birth to six years old). Through study and practical experience, students will learn how to meet the developmental needs of young children, communicate with them, and effectively guide their early behaviour. Students will develop their research skills through investigations related to caregiving and child rearing."
HPW3CI	Working with Infants and Young Children	11	Social Sciences and Humanities	College	"Students will study theories about child behaviour and development, and will have opportunities for research and observation and for practical experiences with young children. Students will become familiar with occupational opportunities and requirements related to working with infants and young children. They will also have opportunities to develop research and critical-thinking skills as they investigate and evaluate current research about early childhood education."
HRT3MI	World Religions and Belief Traditions	11	Social Sciences and Humanities	University/College	"World Religions and Belief Traditions - Perspectives, Issues, and Challenges - University/College Preparation : This course provides students with opportunities to explore various world religions and belief traditions. Students will develop knowledge of the terms and concepts relevant to this area of study, will examine the ways in which religions and belief traditions meet various human needs, and will learn about the relationship between belief and action. They will examine sacred writings and teachings, consider how concepts of time and place influence different religions and belief traditions, and develop research and inquiry skills related to the study of human expressions of belief."
HSP3CI	"Introduction to Anthropology, Psychology, and Sociology"	11	Social Sciences and Humanities	College	"This course introduces students to theories, questions, and issues related to anthropology, psychology, and sociology. Students learn about approaches and research methods used by social scientists. They will be given opportunities to apply theories from a variety of perspectives, to conduct social science research, and to become familiar with current issues within the three disciplines."
HFA4CI	Nutrition and Health	12	Social Sciences and Humanities	College	"This course focuses on the relationship between nutrition and health at different stages of life and on global issues related to food production. Students will investigate the role of nutrition in health and disease and assess strategies for promoting food security and environmental responsibility. Students will learn about healthy eating, expand their repertoire of food-preparation techniques, and refine their ability to use social science research and inquiry methods to investigate topics related to nutrition and health. (Prerequisite: Any University, College, or University/College preparation course in Social Sciences and Humanities, English, or Canadian and World Studies.)"
HFA4UI	Nutrition and Health	12	Social Sciences and Humanities	University	"This course examines the relationships between food, energy balance, and nutritional status; the nutritional needs of individuals at different stages of life; and the role of nutrition in health and disease. Students will evaluate nutrition-related trends and will determine how food choices can promote food security and environmental responsibility. Students will learn about healthy eating, expand their repertoire of food-preparation techniques, and develop their social science research skills by investigating issues related to nutrition and health. (Prerequisite: Any University or University/College preparation course in Social Sciences and Humanities, English, or Canadian and World Studies.)"
HHS4CI	Families in Canada	12	Social Sciences and Humanities	College	"This course enables students to develop an understanding of social science theories as they apply to individual development, the development of intimate relationships, and family and parent-child relationships. Students will explore a range of issues relating to the development of individuals and families in contemporary Canadian society as well as in other cultures and historical periods. They will develop the investigative skills required to conduct research on individuals, intimate relationships, and parent-child roles and relationships in Canada. (Prerequisite: Any University, College, or University/College preparation course in Social Sciences and Humanities, English, or Canadian and World Studies.)"
HHS4UI	Families in Canada	12	Social Sciences and Humanities	University	"This course enables students to draw on sociological, psychological, and anthropological theories and research to analyse the development of individuals, intimate relationships, and family and parent-child relationships. Students will focus on issues and challenges facing individuals and families in Canada’s diverse society. They will develop analytical tools that enable them to assess various factors affecting families and to consider policies and practices intended to support families in Canada. They will develop the investigative skills required to conduct and communicate the results of research on individuals, intimate relationships, and parent-child relationships. (Prerequisite: Any University or University/College preparation course in Social Sciences and Humanities, English, or Canadian and World Studies.)"
HZT4UI	"Philosophy, Question and Theories"	12	Social Sciences and Humanities	University	"This course enables students to acquire an understanding of the nature of philosophy and philosophical reasoning skills and to develop and apply their knowledge and skills while exploring specialized branches of philosophy (the course will cover at least three of the following branches: metaphysics, ethics, epistemology, philosophy of science, social and political philosophy, aesthetics). Students will develop critical thinking and philosophical reasoning skills as they formulate and evaluate arguments related to a variety of philosophical questions and theories. They will also develop research and inquiry skills related to the study and practice of philosophy. (Prerequisite: Any University or University/College preparation course in Social Sciences and Humanities, English, or Canadian and World Studies.)"
TIJ1OI	Exploring Technologies	9	Technological Education	Open	"This course enables students to further explore and develop technological knowledge and skills introduced in the elementary science and technology program. Students will be given the opportunity to design and create products and/or provide services related to the various technological areas or industries, working with a variety of tools, equipment, and software commonly used in industry. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues, and will begin to explore secondary and postsecondary education and training pathways leading to careers in technology-related fields."
TEJ3MI	Computer Engineering Technology	11	Technological Education	University/College	"This course examines computer systems and control of external devices. Students will assemble computers and small networks by installing and configuring appropriate hardware and software. Students will develop knowledge and skills in electronics, robotics, programming, and networks, and will build systems that use computer programs and interfaces to control and/or respond to external devices. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to the use of computers, and will learn about college and university programs leading to careers in computer engineering. Recommended to be taken before or concurrently with emphasis courses."
TEJ4MI	Computer Engineering Technology	12	Technological Education	University/College	"This course extends students’ understanding of computer systems and computer interfacing with external devices. Students will assemble computer systems by installing and configuring appropriate hardware and software, and will learn more about fundamental concepts of electronics, robotics, programming, and networks. Students will examine environmental and societal issues related to the use of computers, and explore postsecondary pathways leading to careers in computer engineering and related fields. Recommended to be taken before or concurrently with emphasis courses. (Prerequisite: Computer Engineering Technology, Grade 11, University/College Preparation.)"
TGJ2OI	Communication Technology	10	Technological Education	Open	"This course introduces students to communications technology from a media perspective. Students will work in the areas of TV/video and movie production, radio and audio production, print and graphic communications, photography, and animation. Student projects may include computer-based activities such as creating videos, editing photos, working with audio, cartooning, developing animations, and designing web pages. Students will also develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to communications technology and explore secondary and postsecondary education and training pathways and career opportunities in the various communications technology fields."
TGJ3MI	"Communication Technology: Graphic Design, Video, New Media"	11	Technological Education	University/College	"This course examines communications technology from a media perspective. Students will develop knowledge and skills as they design and produce media projects in the areas of live, recorded, and graphic communications. These areas may include TV, video, and movie production; radio and audio production; print and graphic communications; photography; digital imaging; broadcast journalism; and interactive new media. Students will also develop an awareness of related environmental and societal issues and explore college and university programs and career opportunities in the various communications technology fields. Recommended to be taken before or concurrently with emphasis courses."
TGJ4MI	"Communication Technology: Graphic Design, Video, New Media"	12	Technological Education	University/College	"This course enables students to further develop media knowledge and skills while designing and producing projects in the areas of live, recorded, and graphic communications. Students may work in the areas of TV, video, and movie production; radio and audio production; print and graphic communications; photography; digital imaging; broadcast journalism; and interactive new media. Students will also expand their awareness of environmental and societal issues related to communications technology and will investigate career opportunities and challenges in a rapidly changing technological environment. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Communications Technology, University/College Preparation.)"
TCJ2OI	Construction Technology	10	Technological Education	Open	"This course introduces students to building materials and processes through opportunities to design and build various construction projects. Students will learn to create and read working drawings; become familiar with common construction materials, components, and processes; and perform a variety of fabrication, assembly, and finishing operations. They will use a variety of hand and power tools and apply knowledge of imperial and metric systems of measurement, as appropriate. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to construction technology, and will explore secondary and postsecondary pathways leading to careers in the industry."
TCJ3CI	Construction Engineering	11	Technological Education	College	"This course focuses on the development of knowledge and skills related to residential construction. Students will gain hands on experience using a variety of construction materials, processes, tools, and equipment; learn about building design and planning construction projects; create and interpret working drawings and sections; and learn how the Ontario Building Code and other regulations and standards apply to construction projects. Students will also develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to construction technology, and explore career opportunities in the field."
TWJ3EI	"Construction Technology, Furniture"	11	Technological Education	College	"Custom Woodworking - Workplace Preparation: This course enables students to develop knowledge and skills related to cabinet making and furniture making. Students will gain practical experience using a variety of the materials, tools, equipment, and joinery techniques associated with custom woodworking. Students will learn to create and interpret technical drawings and will plan, design, and fabricate projects. They will also develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to the woodworking industry, and explore apprenticeships, postsecondary training, and career opportunities in the field that may be pursued directly after graduation."
TCJ4CI	Construction Engineering	12	Technological Education	College	"This course enables students to further develop knowledge and skills related to residential construction and to explore light commercial construction. Students will gain hands on experience using a variety of materials, processes, tools, and equipment and will learn more about building design and project planning. They will continue to create and interpret construction drawings and will extend their knowledge of construction terminology and of relevant building codes and regulations, as well as health and safety standards and practices. Students will also focus on environmental and societal issues related to construction engineering technology, and explore career opportunities in the field. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Construction Engineering Technology, College Preparation.)"
TMJ3CI	Manufacturing Technology: Precision Machining and/or Computer Aided Manufacturing	11	Technological Education	College	"This course enables students to develop knowledge and skills through hands-on, project based learning. Students will acquire design, fabrication, and problem-solving skills while using tools and equipment such as lathes, mills, welders, computer-aided machines, robots, and control systems. Students may have opportunities to obtain industry-standard certification and training. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to manufacturing and will learn about pathways leading to careers in the industry. Recommended to be taken before or concurrently with emphasis courses."
TMJ4CI	Manufacturing Technology: Precision Machining and/or Computer Aided Manufacturing	12	Technological Education	College	"This course enables students to further develop knowledge and skills related to machining, welding, print reading, computer numerical control (CNC), robotics, and design. Students will develop proficiency in using mechanical, pneumatic, electronic, and computer control systems in a project-based learning environment and may have opportunities to obtain industry-standard training and certification. Students will expand their awareness of environmental and societal issues and career opportunities in the manufacturing industry. Recommended to be taken before or concurrently with emphasis courses. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Manufacturing Technology, College Preparation.)"
TDJ3MI	Technological Design	11	Technological Education	University/College	"This course examines how technological design is influenced by human, environmental, financial, and material requirements and resources. Students will research, design, build, and assess solutions that meet specific human needs, using working drawings and other communication methods to present their design ideas. They will develop an awareness of environmental, societal, and cultural issues related to technological design, and will explore career opportunities in the field, as well as the college and/or university program requirements for them. Recommended to be taken before or concurrently with emphasis courses."
TDJ4MI	Technological Design	12	Technological Education	University/College	"This course introduces students to the fundamentals of design advocacy and marketing, while building on their design skills and their knowledge of professional design practices. Students will apply a systematic design process to research, design, build, and assess solutions that meet specific human needs, using illustrations, presentation drawings, and other communication methods to present their designs. Students will enhance their problem solving and communication skills, and explore career opportunitie and the postsecondary education and training requirements for them. Recommended to be taken before or concurrently with emphasis courses. (Prerequisit: Grade 11 Technological Design, University/College Preparation.)"
TDV4MX	Technological Design: Interior Design	12	Technological Education	University/College	"This course introduces students to the fundamentals of design advocacy and marketing, while building on their design skills and their knowledge of professional design practices. Students will apply a systematic design process to research, design, build, and assess solutions that meet specific human needs, using illustrations, presentation drawings, and other communication methods to present their designs. Students will enhance their problem solving and communication skills, and explore career opportunities and the postsecondary education and training requirements for them. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Technological Design, University/College Preparation.)"
TTJ2OI	Transportation Technology	10	Technological Education	Open	"This course introduces students to the service and maintenance of vehicles, aircraft, and/or watercraft. Students will develop knowledge and skills related to the construction and operation of vehicle/craft systems and learn maintenance and repair techniques. Student projects may include the construction of a self-propelled vehicle or craft, engine service, tire/wheel service, electrical/battery service, and proper body care. Students will develop an awareness of related environmental and societal issues and will explore secondary and postsecondary pathways leading to careers in the transportation industry."
TTJ3CI	Transportation Technology: Auto Service	11	Technological Education	College	"This course enables students to develop technical knowledge and skills as they study, test, service, and repair engine, electrical, suspension, brake, and steering systems on vehicles, aircraft, and/or watercraft. Students will develop communication and teamwork skills through practical tasks, using a variety of tools and equipment. Students will develop an awareness of environmental and societal issues related to transportation and will learn about apprenticeship and college programs leading to careers in the transportation industry. Recommended to be taken before or concurrently with emphasis courses."
TTJ4CI	Transportation Technology: Auto Service	12	Technological Education	College	"This course enables students to further develop technical knowledge and skills as they study, test, service, and repair engine management systems; power trains; steering/control, suspension, brake, and body systems on vehicles, aircraft, and/or watercraft; and/or small engine products. Students will refine communication and teamwork skills through practical tasks, using a variety of tools and equipment. Students will expand their awareness of environmental and societal issues related to transportation and their knowledge of apprenticeship and college programs leading to careers in the transportation industry. Recommended to be taken before or concurrently with emphasis courses. (Prerequisite: Grade 11 Transportation Technology, College Preparation.)"
ESLAOI	"Beginning Communication in English, ESL, Level 1"	10	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course builds on students’ previous education and language knowledge to introduce the English language and help students adjust to their new cultural environment. Students will use beginning English language skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing for everyday and essential academic purposes; use basic English language structures and simple sentence patterns in short conversations; read short adapted texts; and write phrases and short sentences. The course also provides students with the knowledge and skills they need to begin to adapt to their new lives in Canada."
ESLBOI	"English in Daily Life, ESL, Level 2"	10	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course expands students' listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in English for everyday and academic purposes. Students will participate in conversations, in structured situations, on a variety of familiar and new topics; link English sentences to compose paragraphs; read a variety of texts designed or adapted for English language learners; and expand their knowledge of English grammatical structures and sentence patterns. The course also supports students' continuing adaptation to the Ontario school system by expanding their cultural knowledge of their new province and country. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 1, or equivalent.)"
ESLCOI	"English for School and Work, ESL Level 3"	10	English Language Learners	Open	"This course extends students’ skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in English for a variety of everyday and academic purposes. Students will make short classroom presentations; read a variety of adapted and original texts in English; and write using a variety of forms of text. Students will also expand their academic vocabulary and their study skills to facilitate the transition to the mainstream school program. This course also introduces students to the rights and responsibilities inherent in Canadian citizenship, and to a variety of current Canadian issues. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 2, or equivalent.) Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
ESLDOI	"Studies in Academic English, ESL, Level 4"	10	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course prepares students to use English with increasing fluency and accuracy in classroom and social situations and to participate in Canadian society as informed citizens. Students will develop the reading, writing, and oral presentation skills required for success in all school subjects. They will study and interpret a variety of grade-level texts; extend listening and speaking skills through participation in discussions and seminars; write narratives, articles, and summaries in English; and respond critically to various print and media texts. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 3, or equivalent.)"
ESLEOI	"Bridge to Mainstream English,ESL, Level 5"	10	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course provides students with the skills and strategies they need to make the transition to college and university preparation courses in English and other secondary school disciplines. Students will be encouraged to develop independence in a range of academic tasks. They will participate in debates and lead classroom workshops; read and interpret literary works and academic texts; write essays, narratives, and reports; and apply a range of learning strategies and research skills effectively. Students will further develop their ability to respond critically to print and media texts. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 4, or equivalent.)"
ELS2OZ	Literacy Sills: Reading and Writing	10	English Language Learners	Open	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
GLS4OZ	TOEFL Preparation	10	English Language Learners	ESL	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
ESLAOI	"Beginning Communication in English, ESL, Level 1"	11	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course builds on students’ previous education and language knowledge to introduce the English language and help students adjust to their new cultural environment. Students will use beginning English language skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing for everyday and essential academic purposes; use basic English language structures and simple sentence patterns in short conversations; read short adapted texts; and write phrases and short sentences. The course also provides students with the knowledge and skills they need to begin to adapt to their new lives in Canada."
ESLBOI	"English in Daily Life, ESL, Level 2"	11	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course expands students' listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in English for everyday and academic purposes. Students will participate in conversations, in structured situations, on a variety of familiar and new topics; link English sentences to compose paragraphs; read a variety of texts designed or adapted for English language learners; and expand their knowledge of English grammatical structures and sentence patterns. The course also supports students' continuing adaptation to the Ontario school system by expanding their cultural knowledge of their new province and country. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 1, or equivalent.)"
ESLCOI	"English for School and Work, ESL Level 3"	11	English Language Learners	Open	"This course extends students’ skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in English for a variety of everyday and academic purposes. Students will make short classroom presentations; read a variety of adapted and original texts in English; and write using a variety of forms of text. Students will also expand their academic vocabulary and their study skills to facilitate the transition to the mainstream school program. This course also introduces students to the rights and responsibilities inherent in Canadian citizenship, and to a variety of current Canadian issues. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 2, or equivalent.) Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
ESLDOI	"Studies in Academic English, ESL, Level 4"	11	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course prepares students to use English with increasing fluency and accuracy in classroom and social situations and to participate in Canadian society as informed citizens. Students will develop the reading, writing, and oral presentation skills required for success in all school subjects. They will study and interpret a variety of grade-level texts; extend listening and speaking skills through participation in discussions and seminars; write narratives, articles, and summaries in English; and respond critically to various print and media texts. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 3, or equivalent.)"
ESLEOI	"Bridge to Mainstream English,ESL, Level 5"	11	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course provides students with the skills and strategies they need to make the transition to college and university preparation courses in English and other secondary school disciplines. Students will be encouraged to develop independence in a range of academic tasks. They will participate in debates and lead classroom workshops; read and interpret literary works and academic texts; write essays, narratives, and reports; and apply a range of learning strategies and research skills effectively. Students will further develop their ability to respond critically to print and media texts. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 4, or equivalent.)"
ELS2OZ	Literacy Sills: Reading and Writing	11	English Language Learners	Open	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
GLS4OZ	TOEFL Preparation	11	English Language Learners	ESL	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
ESLAOI	"Beginning Communication in English, ESL, Level 1"	12	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course builds on students’ previous education and language knowledge to introduce the English language and help students adjust to their new cultural environment. Students will use beginning English language skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing for everyday and essential academic purposes; use basic English language structures and simple sentence patterns in short conversations; read short adapted texts; and write phrases and short sentences. The course also provides students with the knowledge and skills they need to begin to adapt to their new lives in Canada."
ESLBOI	"English in Daily Life, ESL, Level 2"	12	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course expands students' listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in English for everyday and academic purposes. Students will participate in conversations, in structured situations, on a variety of familiar and new topics; link English sentences to compose paragraphs; read a variety of texts designed or adapted for English language learners; and expand their knowledge of English grammatical structures and sentence patterns. The course also supports students' continuing adaptation to the Ontario school system by expanding their cultural knowledge of their new province and country. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 1, or equivalent.)"
ESLCOI	"English for School and Work, ESL Level 3"	12	English Language Learners	Open	"This course extends students’ skills in listening, speaking, reading, and writing in English for a variety of everyday and academic purposes. Students will make short classroom presentations; read a variety of adapted and original texts in English; and write using a variety of forms of text. Students will also expand their academic vocabulary and their study skills to facilitate the transition to the mainstream school program. This course also introduces students to the rights and responsibilities inherent in Canadian citizenship, and to a variety of current Canadian issues. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 2, or equivalent.) Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits."
ESLDOI	"Studies in Academic English, ESL, Level 4"	12	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course prepares students to use English with increasing fluency and accuracy in classroom and social situations and to participate in Canadian society as informed citizens. Students will develop the reading, writing, and oral presentation skills required for success in all school subjects. They will study and interpret a variety of grade-level texts; extend listening and speaking skills through participation in discussions and seminars; write narratives, articles, and summaries in English; and respond critically to various print and media texts. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 3, or equivalent.)"
ESLEOI	"Bridge to Mainstream English,ESL, Level 5"	12	English Language Learners	Open	"Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits. This course provides students with the skills and strategies they need to make the transition to college and university preparation courses in English and other secondary school disciplines. Students will be encouraged to develop independence in a range of academic tasks. They will participate in debates and lead classroom workshops; read and interpret literary works and academic texts; write essays, narratives, and reports; and apply a range of learning strategies and research skills effectively. Students will further develop their ability to respond critically to print and media texts. (Prerequisite: English as a Second Language, Level 4, or equivalent.)"
ELS2OZ	Literacy Sills: Reading and Writing	12	English Language Learners	Open	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
GLS4OZ	TOEFL Preparation	12	English Language Learners	ESL	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
AVI3OZ	Visual Arts for Senior ELL's	12	English Language Learners	ESL	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
SVN3MZ	Environmental Science	12	English Language Learners	ESL - University/College	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
GLS4OZ	TOEFL Preparation	12	English Language Learners	ESL	Specialized ESL courses are designed to meet the needs of students who are enrolled in ESL programs in consultation with WCI ESL staff. Three ESL English courses may be used as compulsory English credits.
